Joshua Rudolf: Hey! Luke!
oscar.morke ┃ Ledger: Hello, Joshua.
Joshua Rudolf: Excuse me.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Hey, guys.
oscar.morke ┃ Ledger: Hello!
Joshua Rudolf: I understand
Joshua Rudolf: Birdie's been hanging out with Dunk right? A little bit.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, we're actually Co working.
Joshua Rudolf: Just got off a call with him. Nice. That's cool.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Hi, Ed.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Cool.
Joshua Rudolf: I didn't realize that you guys were previously work colleagues.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Yeah, yeah. 10 years ago, until 6 years ago, roughly.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, nice. That's cool.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Time flies.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, especially in crypto.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Yeah, this was before crypto, though, so time.
Joshua Rudolf: Right.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Even faster. How does we need
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Ian? Are you gonna be giving the same talk as Zubelin, or is it gonna be a revamp.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Very similar, but a bridged version.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Oh, yeah, great. I'm gonna tell my colleague I I liked it a lot. Yeah, it's a great talk.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Thanks. Appreciate that.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Had a lot of fun at Zoo, Berlin. It's a great event.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Was excellent.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool. We'll get started in a minute. Yeah, thank you. Ian and M. Team for joining. We'll have
Joshua Rudolf: some brief presentations from each. And if it's okay with you guys, I may do a small audible on the agenda and start off with the privacy stuff. I don't think we'll spend a lot of time there. So hopefully, we can get through it relatively quickly. But yeah, may just start off with the
Joshua Rudolf: the privacy 1st agenda item then, and then we'll go over to you, Ian. From there.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Sounds good.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Are you the 1st speaker, Ian.
Joshua Rudolf: Like a second, now.
Ian | Polymer Labs: I'll be second.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Okay.
Joshua Rudolf: We'll try to get to Ian in about 10 min.
Joshua Rudolf: All right. Give me one second. Here.
Joshua Rudolf: make sure everything's recording correctly
Joshua Rudolf: cool. Okay, yeah. Welcome everybody to the L 2 interrupt working group. We have 3 agenda items today, starting off with
Joshua Rudolf: a brief review and sort of
Joshua Rudolf: yeah, just a overview on the wallet and privacy work from there. We have Ian from Polymer on native interrupt upgrade ability and then finishing up with M. Team from spire on based roll up and how this fits into the larger interrupt vision.
Joshua Rudolf: So starting off with privacy, yeah, so just briefly touching on the topic of privacy and the experimental wallet that
Joshua Rudolf: sorry that that folks from the Ef. Wonderland and buyer and others are working on. We shared a bit about this on the last call for anyone that that missed it. It can. You can review the recap or recording from the last call the Tldr is, we are working on an experimental wallet
Joshua Rudolf: which is a fork of empire to help accelerate work around interopping privacy. Going forward, the wallet will have a larger privacy focus, which we believe is something quite critical and valuable to accelerate.
Joshua Rudolf: There were some recent understandable questions or concerns maybe raised around. What exactly will this look like? How are we thinking about? Which privacy protocols to leverage? And just these kinds of things around? Okay, yes, like, I think many people here agree around privacy being an important thing, and the wallet being a valuable vehicle for it. But
Joshua Rudolf: There's some path dependence here, and just some questions around, what is this actually going to look like? So
Joshua Rudolf: we may have Vitalik joining us to share his thoughts. I'm not sure if he's here right now, Vitalik, if you are yeah, maybe unmute yourself and jump in. But otherwise I think we also have some folks from the Wonderland team here. Yes, so maybe. Yeah. Maybe anyone from Wonderland if you wanna start off and share your thoughts around the wallet and kind of latest thinking around privacy. There.
Gori | Wonderland: Hey, everyone.
Gori | Wonderland: I'm good afternoon to give you a brief summary for the ones who have not seen the previous one. The wallet will enable, in terms of privacy, private sense, and private receipts. How can you send funds to another wallet without showing either the sender nor the receiver? And how can you make that eat like with an amazing user experience? Right?
Gori | Wonderland: For example, how do you share your wallet address like the stealth wallet address
Gori | Wonderland: so that anyone can send money to it, and then it aggregates to your real
Gori | Wonderland: private deposit address without people being able to link those 2 together.
Gori | Wonderland: There is some protocols which are aiming to help expand privacy in the ecosystem, such as railgan and privacy pools.
Gori | Wonderland: The goal of the wallet is not to enshrine any of those, but to create the privacy standards so that any privacy protocol can build on top of this
Gori | Wonderland: SDK, that the wallet will integrate. Yes, Tldr of the SDK,
Gori | Wonderland: it's literally the heart and soul of what we're doing. Yes, the wallet.
Gori | Wonderland: like literally. It's the whole value of the kohaku wallet that SDK our aim is to move the ecosystem forward and to get wallets like Metamask, Ravi, Okx, and many others to integrate this this SDK and actually integrate privacy in an easier way. If they would like to do it right now, it'd be nearly impossible or very, very, very hard.
Gori | Wonderland: So we want to make it easy.
Gori | Wonderland: and to display the capabilities of that SDK, we will have the wallet prototype, which is the fork of buyer.
Gori | Wonderland: Did I miss anything, Josh, that you want to share or scale it. You want to add something.
Joshua Rudolf: No, I think you covered it.
Joshua Rudolf: Yes, Kelly, or anyone else want to jump in.
Skele | Wonderland: I can take the question from Frankie, though what standards are needed. So we need a few things. The most important one is address servation. So for you to be able in an uninteractive way, find the
Skele | Wonderland: let's say, private key or secret that you will use to deposit for another person.
Skele | Wonderland: Do you see
Skele | Wonderland: something that we are working with? And it's similar to self addresses, as you know it, there is also the standard of how do you
Skele | Wonderland: communicate that secret to the receiver, for example, hey, I created this secret for you. How do you find that you now have an increase, or a new note or a new private balance. And then there is a more
Skele | Wonderland: boring standard, which is Apis, and how would does the wallet actually communicate with these privacy protocols
Skele | Wonderland: which is not so fancy. But it's something that we need to standardize as well for the SDK, and that's mainly it. We do have some components of chain regarding indexing and how to be able to
Skele | Wonderland: as privately as possible, not leak information when you're trying to find your secrets. But yeah, that's mainly it. We'll have more. We have some details on the address reservation. We can share a document with you guys right now on the chat.
Joshua Rudolf: Thanks, Cyke. Did you wanna jump in.
cyp | status.network: That's for me.
Joshua Rudolf: Yes. Sorry. Yeah.
cyp | status.network: Awesome.
cyp | status.network: Cool. Yeah, hey? Hey? Everyone.
cyp | status.network: so real quick. I just wanted to
cyp | status.network: to kind of give you a quick update on what we've been building so far.
cyp | status.network: I think it's kind of relevant to to our call. I I posted very quickly on the chats group. I think last week about that. So yeah, it's mostly related to to privacy.
cyp | status.network: what we are doing now is within service network. So service network is L, 2, based on the linear stack. We do gases, transactions. Natively meaning. We like, anyone can submit pre-transactions. We implement a spam protection backed by airline. So Zkp to guarantee that you're not spamming the network
cyp | status.network: and
cyp | status.network: we also have studies as an app right, like the the Og wallet. And so the goal now is to implement more privacy into what we're building. And
cyp | status.network: one of the cool aspects of gases transactions is that it's re-anonymizes the wallets because you can basically submit transactions from wallet that has 0 gas
cyp | status.network: And so it's not like with all the different privacy solutions that are currently implemented, where you always need to phone somewhere every layer, a vendor, something that will kind of take charge of that, and so that in the end it kind of links to other wallets, and and for the anonymity
cyp | status.network: of of the the wallet, it's not very good. So we've got less transactional actions we can really have, like a pretty pretty good anonymity set
cyp | status.network: in the end. And and so we're working now with relgan to implement their solution at the kind of base layer on the L 2 meaning that from the studies app and from any app that will be built on studies network you'll be have. You'll have the choice to either go private or not.
cyp | status.network: And so it's very early still. But just like I, I wanted to to kind of get you guys feedback or like, at least let you know that. Yeah, we're working on that direction where we want to have private transactions and private app interactions built in at the wallet level, but also directly on the chain as well.
cyp | status.network: And by the way, linear. So we are based on the linear stack. So linear is also
cyp | status.network: working with us on that and they are currently implementing relevant for the Metamask cards. And so the goal is basically to also have it implemented. At the Metamask level. We are. We're not there yet. But yeah, it's it's going to to be
cyp | status.network: we. We're working on right now. So probably in the next next few months we'll have some something to show.
Joshua Rudolf: Awesome thanks.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool anything else on this topic.
cyp | status.network: Try our test nets. It's free. You don't have to reach.
Joshua Rudolf: So that was good.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool, well, if nothing else on privacy, we can move on to the next agenda. Item.
Joshua Rudolf: I will hand it over to you. Ian.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Thanks. Let's see if I can share my screen. I haven't used.
Joshua Rudolf: Oh, yeah. One second, I gotta let you. Okay, there you go.
Ian | Polymer Labs: See if this works.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Sorry I've got to adjust my permissions, my computer quick.
Ian | Polymer Labs: I'll have to leave and rejoin.
Joshua Rudolf: I also might be able to share.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, good, much. Second 10.
Joshua Rudolf: Hey, Mac? OS tells you to restart. I think you don't need to.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah. I was gonna say.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Only you've had the same experience.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, exactly.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Yeah.
Joshua Rudolf: We'll give them a minute. There we go!
Ian | Polymer Labs: Here we go.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Think this will work. Now, okay.
Joshua Rudolf: Yep.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): 88.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Cool. See if I can.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Busy.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Alright, thank you. Sorry about that.
Ian | Polymer Labs: So yeah, today, I want to talk about something which I spoke about at Zoo, Berlin, and I think I spoke to a number of you like separately as well about this topic. And so sort of the basis of this topic is
Ian | Polymer Labs: assuming, like the foundational axiom, is that you know, eventually we do want to achieve native interop between roll ups
Ian | Polymer Labs: and by native interrupt. What I mean is interrupt. That's verified as part of the l 1 state transition function, you know, under l 1 consensus. And this is achieved.
Ian | Polymer Labs: It's achieved using the outputs that roll-ups settle to the l. 1,
Ian | Polymer Labs: you know, looks somewhat like this.
Ian | Polymer Labs: And then, of course, other roll-ups can absorb
Ian | Polymer Labs: those outputs into their own execution environment. Whether this is done using l. 1 s. Load or l 1 origin. Once they have these roots inside their execution environment, you can make arbitrary, you can verify arbitrary claims about the counterparty. L. 2. Inside of that L 2 execution environment.
Ian | Polymer Labs: So that looks great in theory. But there's this problem in practice that
Ian | Polymer Labs: actually, every roll up basically settles somewhere different and in a different format. So it's very heterogeneous. The the layout of the outputs on the l 1. And so it becomes quite difficult actually to deploy a contract on some l. 2 that is configured in a way that it can locate and make sense of the settled outputs of all of the other counterparty. L. 2 s.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Essentially, what you need to do is you need to configure. This verifier contract with a mapping of chain ids to a location in a format that that the L 2 corresponding to that chain id uses when it settles.
Ian | Polymer Labs: and you know you could do this
Ian | Polymer Labs: with your verifier contract upfront. You can figure it, configure it with this information. But roll ups are not ossified. So what happens when you know the one in the middle here changes it upgrades from, let's say, OP stack bedrock to OP Stack Canon.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Its settlement location, its settlement format. It changes in that process, or, what happens when a new L 2 enters the system, and we want to also connect with that. L. 2. Well, we need to configure it as well. And so what this sort of necessitates in practice is that you have to have some upgradability in your native interrupt verifier contracts
Ian | Polymer Labs: because ethereum is upgrading. The L. 2 s. Are upgrading, and so these verifier contracts have to be able to upgrade in order to maintain parity with
Ian | Polymer Labs: the system as as it evolves.
Ian | Polymer Labs: And this is obviously a bit of a problem, because you don't actually achieve native interop right? If you have a multi sig somewhere in the system that
Ian | Polymer Labs: allows for upgrades to occur. So is native interrupt, even
Ian | Polymer Labs: possible like, can we actually even achieve this in practice without a fully ossified system. We know without effectively having sharding and I think that you know, I think this is something that everybody
Ian | Polymer Labs: has come up across. You know various teams have been working on native interrupt protocols, such as bases standard and and arbitrum's broadcast standard and so anybody who's been working on a native interrupt
Ian | Polymer Labs: protocol has surely ran into this
Ian | Polymer Labs: and I think you know, at a high level, there's basically like 3 ways that you address this.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Either we standardized settlement
Ian | Polymer Labs: which probably never gonna happen. You know, you can have standardization within a cluster, which is this is kind of an argument actually in favor of like in cluster, interrupt, because part of what you solve in in cluster interrupt is this problem
Ian | Polymer Labs: But you still need to interrupt between clusters. Right? I don't think anybody. I think everybody on this call will agree that we're not all going to agree on a single
Ian | Polymer Labs: roll up stack to use, but perhaps within different roll-up stacks is a way of standardizing settlement logic such that it is shared across otherwise divergent stacks, and of course, native roll-ups are another opportunity. Where this type of
Ian | Polymer Labs: the settlement logic could be standardized as part of a native roll up, it could actually be enforced through the native rollup precompiles potentially. So, I think that's something to consider. But then, again, you still have the problem where not every roll up is going to convert to a native roll up, and so you still have to have a way of bridging between the native roll-up cluster and other clusters.
Ian | Polymer Labs: So another way of approaching this would be to push the upgrade ability down to the l 1 and have somewhat of like a configuration or registry contract on the l. 1
Ian | Polymer Labs: and then you can actually use the l 1 view, or you know the l. 1 origin or l. 1 s. Load to
Ian | Polymer Labs: approve updates to your routing in your system.
Ian | Polymer Labs: just based on changes in the configuration that occur in one place on on the l. 1. In this l. 1 contract you can absorb those changes into the L. 2 s. To affect those changes in the L. 2 contracts, and the advantage here is that by pushing the upgradeability down into one place on the l. 1
Ian | Polymer Labs: well, it's easier to maintain, like a
Ian | Polymer Labs: a better, like a higher Quality Security Council to to, you know, to manage the upgrades of this single contract on the l 1 you could potentially have, like a consortium of like people from every major roll up who are part of this Security Council for this like shared registry contract on the l. 1,
Ian | Polymer Labs: or you could even take it a bit further.
Ian | Polymer Labs: You could put it under the purview of the l 1 fork choice rule where this is like a system contract that gets upgraded, only, you know, during hard forks.
Ian | Polymer Labs: or, you know, according to the l. 1 validators, and that would truly put this under this. Would that would truly make this. Allow this to be a native interop in the sense that it would be the l 1. Validators that are controlling this routing information.
Ian | Polymer Labs: And then, you know a 3, rd and it's worth mentioning here that
Ian | Polymer Labs: this has some overlap with the on chain config work that's being led by Marissa, which is focused on the Erc 7, 7, 8, 5 right now. I think you know, potentially we could
Ian | Polymer Labs: add this information on top of the other information that's already stored in that config contract.
Ian | Polymer Labs: And then the 3rd approach.
Ian | Polymer Labs: which is, I think, like the sexiest, best approach in theory, would be that every roll up sequencer in the same way that they should be absorbing the l. 1 state route into their execution. Environment.
Ian | Polymer Labs: according to the l. 1 origin, or in order, in order to support the l 1 origin.
Ian | Polymer Labs: they could absorb essentially all of the subtle outputs, the latest sub output for every other roll up that they're aware of
Ian | Polymer Labs: as part of their State transition function, and this has the advantage that it reduces the level of
Ian | Polymer Labs: the levels of Merkel the number of levels of Merkle proofs that you have to provide to prove a counterparty state, because
Ian | Polymer Labs: if you do it, using the l 1 origin view, or you do it based on having. Yeah, if you do it based on the l 1 origin view, you 1st have to prove the settled L. 2 state inside of that l. 1 view, and then you prove your L. 2. State inside of that l. 2 state root that was in that output. But if you just absorbed the outputs directly into the L 2 execution environment, then you would only have to provide a single Merkle proof against the L. 2 state root that was absorbed into the L 2 execution environment.
Ian | Polymer Labs: But I don't think this will work in practice, in part because
Ian | Polymer Labs: some stacks when they settle, you know you don't actually store like the actual roots in storage you store like a hash of them or a commitment to them. And so it's not as simple as like reading from a location on the l. 1 you actually need to like, run a full node for the L. 2, or communicate with a full node for the L. 2. In order to get the Pre image for the hash that was settled to the l. 1. Because the actual.
Ian | Polymer Labs: the actual l. 2 state route is not, you know, present in a storage slot on the l. 1. Instead, it's a hash that commits commits to an object that contains that state root. So that's actually all the slides I have prepared. And yeah, I kind of just wanted to stop this and leave it as like an open
Ian | Polymer Labs: question for discussion. I'm curious what other people are thinking about this. Maybe this is like a little too far out. I know it doesn't really relate to our current priorities of, you know, improving. Interrupt ux immediately. Because this is a much further out problem. But you know, if the goal long term is to support native. Interrupt. Once, you know, once we have real time proving, etc, that has settlement times
Ian | Polymer Labs: much lower than they are today. Then this is something that we should start thinking about. Now, in my opinion.
Allan | Offchain Labs: Which of those options do you feel like is the most feasible, as of right? Now?
Allan | Offchain Labs: I. 2, 2, feels like the best way to deal with the variety amongst roll ups, because one and 3 both just seem to have a lot of nuances for edge cases. But I'm curious which one you feel most optimistic about.
Ian | Polymer Labs: I. I agree with your analysis there. And actually, we've already implemented like a version of this registry contract, and I should add that, like a lot of this is actually inspired by arbitrum's prover pointers. And in a way, this registry on the l. 1 or this configuration contract on the l. 1 can be thought of like a global prover pointer that has been pushed down to the l. 1. Instead of having to like, maintain different prover pointers inside of the L 2 execution environment. And I do think that like today, this is actually kind of the only way you can handle it.
Ian | Polymer Labs: and yeah, I think the amount of standardization that would be required to handle it using the 1st or 3rd approach is probably not
Ian | Polymer Labs: achievable, or I'm doubtful that it is.
Allan | Offchain Labs: Got it. Yeah, that's helpful. And and and the the pattern was a little bit familiar with broadcaster. It makes a lot of sense. Especially if you can just bank on the l. 1 being the best place to go to get that information reliably.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Yeah.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Oh, thank you. Bristly.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool. Well, thank you, Ian. Any other. Oh, yes, call them.
Kalman Lajko: Do you? Do you plan to propose an Erc or
Kalman Lajko: make this contract into an Erc? Maybe.
Ian | Polymer Labs: I think I'm I'm kind of curious. What people think the best route forward is because.
Ian | Polymer Labs: yeah, I don't. Wanna I guess I don't wanna spend time too much time writing a standard. If it's not something that people will actually like, roll up teams aren't actually going to adopt. So I think it's important that there's like some consensus arrived at ahead of time, so that we know that you know the the standard will actually
Ian | Polymer Labs: it'll actually amount to something is, is my opinion.
Ian | Polymer Labs: I think the pro. Probably the best way forward, and would be to, I think, roll it together with the the ongoing
Ian | Polymer Labs: l. 1 chain config work that Marissa's leading and yeah, perhaps it'd be just a an addition or amend amendment to the existing Erc, or maybe another Erc as well.
Kalman Lajko: Okay.
Marissa Posner: Yeah, I can send the link to the group where we're start to chat about some things.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Thank you.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Yeah, I think that's valid question. You know. And like, yeah, the kind of the founding axiom right is that this is something that's worth
Ian | Polymer Labs: pushing for. And I personally think that it is. But you know that's just my personal opinion.
Allan | Offchain Labs: I think you could also make the case that the
Allan | Offchain Labs: the relative size of a of a given cross chain. If it's just a a transfer, as the simplest use case.
Allan | Offchain Labs: really plays a big part. In what different, especially intent, driven solutions, or even like native or off solutions you could use. If you have a very large amount, if you've got, you know 100 million that you want to move between base and arbitrum in either direction. Then there are few solvers. Or you know,
Allan | Offchain Labs: well, capitalized intermediaries that are able to make that happen today via the routes that were, you know, most optimistic about that solve most use cases. So I I do like the idea of having something, albeit a bit slower, that could handle this in a more native way.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Yeah, I agree. And I guess personally, at at Polymer we use a native route as a fallback for our faster route.
Ian | Polymer Labs: So, you know, if our fast route goes down, you can still
Ian | Polymer Labs: progress. Using the slower native row is the idea.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, I just wanted to echo Alan and Ian there. My view is that it's an important part of the broader interrupt menu. So yeah. Excited to
Joshua Rudolf: keep pushing on this and and see where it leads. And and Marissa and the A. Team at the F have been have been doing a lot of great work here as well.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool. Yeah. Anything else on this topic.
Joshua Rudolf: If not, we can move on to the final agenda. Item.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool. Alright. I will hand it over to M. Team on base, roll ups and interrupt.
Matthew mteam: Cool. Can you guys see my screen.
Joshua Rudolf: Yes, perfect.
Matthew mteam: Great. Yeah. So that was a pretty technical
Matthew mteam: just conversation from Ann. And I really appreciate that. But this is a lot more kind of high level.
Matthew mteam: I just want to give my my like summarized vision of how base roll-ups can fit into the interop story of ethereum which we've we've been talking about in these calls, but also how we can do that in like a more pragmatic way, like, I'm not going to talk about narrative here, or or value crew, or anything like that. I want to focus on
Matthew mteam: kind of a more product mindset.
Matthew mteam: So the the question I asked myself when I was making this presentation is what is what is interrupt to me. I think we have.
Matthew mteam: all of us have kind of our own understandings of it. But the way that I look at it personally is that kind of as a user.
Matthew mteam: Occasionally I want to move assets from one app to another that counts as
Matthew mteam: as as interop for me. It's not so much a chain, I guess it is like in practice. But for me, if I have my tokens in one area and I want to use them with another app, it's not because I just had them sitting around. It's because I was using them with another application. So
Matthew mteam: just the other day I was moving some tokens from Ave to base because there was more yield on base, and
Matthew mteam: it wasn't because the instance of aave on ethereum was worse.
Matthew mteam: it just wasn't my preference at the time, and so
Matthew mteam: nothing about the chain was important for me. It was literally just the application and what each instance of the application could offer. There.
Matthew mteam: The other part of interrupt that, I think, is perhaps like under represented in the
Matthew mteam: in the conversation sometimes and and Joseph from Inc. Had a really great.
Matthew mteam: really great presentation on this at Ecc is the idea of like composition of different actions among protocols. So we all know this is like being defi Legos. But just to expand on this. You can think of lots of different actions you might have. You could have a
Matthew mteam: and you could have a swap, a deposit, a withdraw whatever
Matthew mteam: you also just have a token. I think a token can be a representation of maybe like an Lp position, and moving that across a protocol and moving the these different representations across protocols with minimal friction, of course, is really powerful. So
Matthew mteam: I think this is like
Matthew mteam: to me. This is what like interrupt being solved means is that we can. I can move my assets from one app to another, and I can move my actions across protocols and kind of compose across them. So maybe I do a leverage long using liquidity for multiple domains.
Matthew mteam: and the point of
Matthew mteam: the kind of where base drops come in for me is, is doing this with like minimal, necessary friction. I think there's a certain amount of
Matthew mteam: of kind of lock in that we have for having multiple chains that are not necessarily the same.
Matthew mteam: But I see this as a a
Matthew mteam: there's a lot we can do for
Matthew mteam: run into those barriers. And so that's what I want to talk about for the rest of the presentation. But friction to me means like
Matthew mteam: for developers.
Matthew mteam: complexity of maybe doing message, mapping or integrating intense. It means like backwards compatibility. So like this. Ave on layer, one work with my lock and mint protocol.
Matthew mteam: so on and so forth. And I think that's at the end of the day this ends up trickling up. And so we see complexity and friction for developers turning into delays for applications launching, and that that's friction for users.
Matthew mteam: And I think we see
Matthew mteam: personally, I think you see, a lot of this in wallets where a lot of complexity has been handed off to the wallets like Metamask, and thus we've seen some delays and kind of what I'd like to see from from wallets and kind of a user experience on that side.
Matthew mteam: So yeah, it's like, get into it.
Matthew mteam: base roll-ups, I think fit in in like 3 big ways.
Matthew mteam: And then there's a few, maybe second order effects that I I want to keep thinking about.
Matthew mteam: I kind of think of space robs at the most basic level as multiplying whatever ethereum. So if ethereum has
Matthew mteam: fast slot time.
Matthew mteam: base reps can can use that export, that sequencing, that that building pipeline into something more. But if ethereum has a negative negative aspects like a expected builder market then you have a
Matthew mteam: you multiply that as well. So you're just giving that to more block space.
Matthew mteam: there's there's pros and cons.
Matthew mteam: The number. One thing that I personally think about is this idea of like a composability zone or an area, maybe a set of chains. That's that are synchronously composable between. There's, of course, there's different levels of this. Maybe you have crossing conduct calls. Maybe you don't but from like a most basic level, I think people, especially Justin, use the term like universal synchronous composability.
Matthew mteam: Where you have ethereum layer. One includes all of the layer twos, all the layer 3, so on, so forth. They're all synchronously composable. I don't see this vision as being
Matthew mteam: practical, because I think there's going to be differences in
Matthew mteam: in how chains kind of express their preferences. But I do think that there are.
Matthew mteam: There are certain places where a like technically composable zone will make a lot of sense. So.
Matthew mteam: for example, if you have a layer 2, and you'd like to have sickness, Lee, composable layer threes, and you've built like a composable zone on top of these. Or maybe we just have a composability zone that doesn't include the layer one but does include a wide set of layer twos. I think there's there's a lot of
Matthew mteam: possibilities there. But for me a base roll up is a is one way to to export the sequencing of maybe a centralized sequencer, or maybe a layer one, and that gets us potential for these these zones to form again, like coordinated by that sequencing aspect. I also think the
Matthew mteam: maybe one of the big ones for me is like reducing friction
Matthew mteam: in a couple of ways. I think
Matthew mteam: this really starts to come out when you compare to asynchronous interop or or interop across chains that are very different.
Matthew mteam: so for developers, the biggest one for me is like, if I'm attempting to engage with some
Matthew mteam: some protocol in another chain, that's my goal.
Matthew mteam: or get my users tokens from another chain into my app.
Matthew mteam: Then there's a few different ways that I could. I could attempt to do this with the technology that exists right now. But what probably ends up happening is that it looks
Matthew mteam: like strange to me, it looks unknown because I haven't seen maybe Async
Matthew mteam: programming practices in solidity before
Matthew mteam: and so this kind of complexity is just friction. And and maybe I mean
Matthew mteam: for me, it's like, if I'm working in forge. And I I'm writing a smart contract, and I
Matthew mteam: I'm so used to doing synchronous contract calls because everything's usually in the same chain, or you know at least these tools are built for that mindset that now we have this like disruption.
Matthew mteam: If there's some asynchronicity there, and I'm not saying this is like insurmountable. I just think it's friction.
Matthew mteam: I was thinking backwards. Compatibility is like a really underrated part of super super like
Matthew mteam: interrupt focus team. Sometimes because we can develop like a great interrupt protocol. But I think it's
Matthew mteam: it's really good to look at, like what we actually want to interrupt with. And for me personally, it's like
Matthew mteam: pretty much the
Matthew mteam: like, the big defi protocols on layer, one on a uniswap. And if there's you know these tokens? Are these contracts already written a lot of times, they're not upgradable and so maintaining backwards compatibility synchronous, asynchronous. Whatever with those is super important. And I think that basically, again, does not guarantee this, but has the potential to enable greater backwards compatibility with the contracts and protocols we know and love.
Matthew mteam: I also think based routes are not like front end thing in all. In in many cases like there's there's still this, I hope, some form of chain abstraction or intent based
Matthew mteam: routing on top of this. But I do think of of of base sequencing as potentially offering a way to do
Matthew mteam: faster settlement of intense. For example. Maybe if you have a at base, roll up
Matthew mteam: settles to ethereum. So it's a layer 2,
Matthew mteam: and you have a another layer. 2. That's not based. Then interacting with the liquidity protocols, tokens whatever on this
Matthew mteam: base layer 2 could be a lot simpler, because you already know what to expect when interacting with your end. Maybe you already have, like a solver market built up for that and so.
Matthew mteam: you know, connecting these dots is is going to be a little bit easier for you again, especially if this is like a base rope that follows the consensus and finality of ethereum.
Matthew mteam: I just wanna link to this, this page right here, where we've written a good bit about this aspire. Just kind of on the idea of visibility, and how we imagine
Matthew mteam: it could be could be done for a base roll up, and then kind of what are some of the effects of that?
Matthew mteam: So what are the trade-offs there. I think this is like
Matthew mteam: everyone's mind kind of jumps to this when they hear the word base rob. And so I want to just address some of these real quick.
Matthew mteam: I think the 1st one
Matthew mteam: from from my perspective, like the biggest one, is just. There's been slow development, not only of baseballs, but also of dependencies like pre comps. Slow development and slow adoption
Matthew mteam: zk has not been necessarily slower than expected, but it's still nominally
Matthew mteam: relatively slow process of getting these things production ready.
Matthew mteam: And then moving on. I think number 2 here is
Matthew mteam: is maybe the hardest one to solve the layer one.
Matthew mteam: and especially the block building. Pipeline just isn't ready for
Matthew mteam: for for defi at a lot of levels. I think that kind of democratizing maximal mev extraction.
Matthew mteam: So
Matthew mteam: the calculated trade-off that you know core devs made, but unfortunately has the has some some second order effects. And so.
Matthew mteam: hey, we've written more about this in this post here, but you can imagine that having a an auction on layer, one that's designed to extract value can make it difficult to run systems that are perhaps serving users
Matthew mteam: that are that are expecting not to be front runner, to be sandwiched like they are in centralized sequence or layer twos.
Matthew mteam: and so at spire. We've been doing a lot of layer 3
Matthew mteam: like base layer threes on centralized sequencer layer twos. There's a lot of benefits that we've written about. But essentially, I just want to kind of expand the idea of a base roll up to. There's more composability zones than the original concept of like universal ethereum, synchronous composability. And maybe these sets join eventually. But I
Matthew mteam: for now I imagine that there's like these tighter knit areas that maybe don't include the layer one right now, just because of again, that extractive sequencing market costs block times, etc.
Matthew mteam: I also want to talk about
Matthew mteam: maybe a less obvious thing, which is the complex cost and fee structure, not necessarily not trying to say that based offs are necessarily more expensive than a centralized sequencer up, but designed poorly and especially designed naively.
Matthew mteam: you will run into a lot of complexity issues. So if you're
Matthew mteam: if you're writing anything that interacts with layer one. Of course you're going to need some some way to pass the fees on to the layer. 2 exactor
Matthew mteam: but if you're if you don't have a single sequencer, and like a place to conveniently do this, it can result in.
Matthew mteam: It can result in a mess. So
Matthew mteam: I believe in most, if not all, OP stack roll ups the the layer. 2 data fee is passed on to users. But it's kind of like taken out of their account instead of a fee that they pay directly. And so the this just additional complexity
Matthew mteam: is the kind of thing you would see on base roll ups. I think
Matthew mteam: this is not unsolvable, and especially when we start to just reduce cost.
Matthew mteam: I guess, gas using layer one. It's like a higher gas limit. This becomes like a lot more straightforward. But again, like, whenever you have, like, a more distributed, decentralized sequencer or proposer layer, you're going to run into these types of complexity issues.
Matthew mteam: Yeah, in summary, just wanna make a few statements here. I think base reps are one option for interop
Matthew mteam: or non-based shared sequencing but they are unique. I think they have some properties that
Matthew mteam: we yeah, we aren't gonna get anywhere else. And we aren't going to be in production.
Matthew mteam: They also offer you can have like a moonshot, I think.
Matthew mteam: like I I wouldn't put it as like a plan a for ethereum wide. Interrupt but more of like a. If this works
Matthew mteam: with things like maybe a native roll up
Matthew mteam: it becomes a part of this. Then we have a we have a
Matthew mteam: a way that could be way better than what we expected for could get a lot closer to like the execution. Sharding roadmap that it's been talking about for a while.
Matthew mteam: and then I also think that we're going to see a lot more like isolated experiments, like again, like base layer threes on layer twos. They can show early value. So I think we'll get to see like the solidity flow of doing a crossing contract call before it's interacting with a layer one. So I'm personally really excited about that. That's 1 of the things we're building as fire
Matthew mteam: that should be coming soon.
Matthew mteam: And then I also think that
Matthew mteam: I said this a couple times. I think base reps are a
Matthew mteam: are a part of a larger picture of interop. They're not the whole story by any means. And really the only thing they get you is this like coordinated sequencing layer, like she was saying to the same thing,
Matthew mteam: and that's enough for starting to work on
Matthew mteam: like an interrupt protocol on top of that.
Matthew mteam: But you still you still need in our program. You still need all of the infrastructure that we've been talking about in these calls. So you know, chain, abstraction, intense are both things that I would find very valuable for a world that even if everything is based
Matthew mteam: there is a potential world where
Matthew mteam: a base and native roll up
Matthew mteam: ends up, becoming essentially an execution shard of the layer, one execution zone. And we see these kind of like coprocessor. Evm environments being like the the simple, elegant way of
Matthew mteam: of doing a roll up. And I think that's again. That's a potential future. But that would involve like a
Matthew mteam: pretty major disruption in existing layer twos, and not something that I'm personally personally betting on right now.
Matthew mteam: that's it. Any questions.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): So, Matthew, I think you know this concern of mine, but I wanted still to double down on what your vision is for the long term world in terms of the number of synchronous composability zones like, would you
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): be like in the Justin Drake camp of saying, Hey, we can aim to have this, like academically pleasing single composability zone to rule them all.
Matthew mteam: I think it's it's kind of an idealistic perspective.
Matthew mteam: but still one worth like attempting. I mean the the big reason to consider ethereum.
Matthew mteam: For like a big priority for your composability zone is because of the network effect that ethereum has but again, we talked about some practical things that make that difficult, and I think we will end up seeing
Matthew mteam: you know whether I like it or not. We'll we'll start seeing composibility zones like synchronous composibility. Zones there don't include ethereum@firstst
Matthew mteam: So eventually, yeah, I'd love to do that. I think that's always going to be a part of our mission at spire. But of course there's practicality things we have to think about. I
Matthew mteam: I do think that there's a
Matthew mteam: it's kind of like a hub and spoke model that we can imagine here. Or maybe there's a few
Matthew mteam: large layer twos that have async interop with layer one but have their own composability zones with layer threes on top. I think something like base could be, you know, with our base vision could be something like a early prototype of that
Matthew mteam: I'm not sure again, how this like evolves in in 5 to 10 year. Timelines.
Matthew mteam: Good question.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): I'm worried. This is a bearish take, because it means we can't hope to have a million times more transactions right? If we keep this assumption of having a single entity to sequence the entirety of the execution zoning this will be the bottleneck.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): So like this only works like, we will have this ceiling somewhere.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): which is why, yeah, I think it's a bit of a limited view. Maybe.
Matthew mteam: You mean, for just like a like a base rope
Matthew mteam: on a layer, 2 kind of being constrained by the layer, one resources.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Well, it doesn't matter a world where a single entity has the ultimate power over how transactions are sequenced, which is a fundamental precondition to having shared sequencing or base sequencing in particular, right? So like it feels safe from 1st principles. We don't really like. My gut thing is, we don't want to build towards a world where we only have a single execution zone.
Matthew mteam: I again, I think it's kind of a
Matthew mteam: misconception that for a for a base world to exist, you need all
Matthew mteam: sequencing rights and all the right locks to be given to the same entity for for a slot.
Matthew mteam: I read this article
Matthew mteam: called base Reps can scale actually that that addresses like this exact question from from Christopher goes. And I think that the
Matthew mteam: maybe the biggest thing here is like understanding that a base drop is not not guaranteeing that the in the context of ethereum, it's not guaranteeing that the layer one proposer their layer. One builder, has the right lock and is actually sequencing transactions and doing heavy lifting there, but rather that
Matthew mteam: they have coordination
Matthew mteam: with whoever's doing that. And so. And there's another part of this which is like the consensus and finality side. But the point is that the level of coordination that you need is not absolute, so it doesn't have to be. You give over your entire block. I think it's
Matthew mteam: it's maybe quite dangerous to imagine a world where we have, like a super builder
Matthew mteam: builds everything and I'd be I'd be quite against that
Matthew mteam: But again, I I think perhaps we see a more distributed model. But again it's hard to know. I think@firstst Probably see there being enough enough room in like a centralized sequencer to to juice more out of it for other chains aspire. We have a model that can do base sequencing, but doesn't
Matthew mteam: constrain the layer. 2 sequencer at all.
Matthew mteam: That'll be that'll be coming out soon.
Matthew mteam: and so I think that's yeah. It's kind of like a
Matthew mteam: I mean, you're correct that like, if if we want a full synchronized ability, then we need to have the right lock to be down to one entity. It's just like the same chain at that point. That doesn't mean that the
Matthew mteam: you can't do anything without that's that being set up.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): That would be a redefinition of what based based roll-up means right.
Matthew mteam: Yes, so this is a this is a longer topic. I I don't think that the original definition of
Matthew mteam: of base roll off from Justin is complete.
Matthew mteam: And so I've been able to do define it in spires. Docs. Just put the link here as kind of an expansion of the idea.
Matthew mteam: I, yeah, there's a few reasons why. But that's the
Matthew mteam: the the big one is like the
Matthew mteam: the way that recomp designs have evolved
Matthew mteam: makes certainly, even from Justin have changed like, what a what a base role must mean. So there's kind of some self-conflicting things.
Matthew mteam: let's yeah. I tried to lock it down a little bit more in that article. But I think, yeah, you're right, that
Matthew mteam: going by that original definition, at least some interpretations of it, you'd have to have
Matthew mteam: the the way you described earlier, with like a full right look.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Thank you.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: So one thing I'm interested in asking Matthew about is the demo that spire showed about reading the base the base layers data or oracle data on the L 3 or or on the l, 2. Whatever on the roll up side. So what is your current approach from
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: to to do so? Are you like implementing l. 1 l. 1 call or l 1 sload, or something like that, or what's your current approach?
Matthew mteam: Yeah. Good question. Well, I have a lot more
Matthew mteam: talks about this soon. We have some some stuff that's like, just in the review phase, and so I can definitely share those when that's out. But for now, like, I think, it's easiest to understand the
Matthew mteam: the architecture as
Matthew mteam: as collapsing all layer, 3 transactions into a single layer, 3 block, and then putting that on into a layer, 2 transaction.
Matthew mteam: and then each layer 2. Transaction. It becomes part of the layer. 2 block, I should say. And so if you were to expand all of this, you'd have a super block and includes, like layer 2 and layer 3 transactions.
Matthew mteam: Then what we do is we simulate that super block from like top to bottom, and every point that's
Matthew mteam: crushing call is being made, and we have some like.
Matthew mteam: at least with the interface for expressing that then the
Matthew mteam: we just pretend that it's possible. So we say, if you're making a crushing call. Let's just implement it.
Matthew mteam: on the let's run it against the the other chain state, I should say
Matthew mteam: so. We have like a crushing simulator that can handle this. Then once we're done that we have this
Matthew mteam: like, we know all of the all the borders, all the
Matthew mteam: the the places that we're making crushing calls. So we know what to expect from the results. And we put those on chain into the layer. 2. With what we call priming transactions, that kind of preload state. So in the in the model that you mentioned before, of doing a
Matthew mteam: doing a a layer, 3. Reading from the layer. 2, we'd have a special priming transaction like a system transaction for the layer. 3. That would load the state of like the expected result from that call into the layer. 3, and then the the actual layer. 3 transaction when it, when it's executed, could just read that state. And then we're
Matthew mteam: okay
Matthew mteam: during the settlement on the layer 2, which happens frequently because it's a base drop, we're verifying the that the call was actually correct. So if you're making a oracle read, you're gonna have to check that. The oracle actually reads what you told the layer. 3, it would read. So there's some level of prediction here, and then we have some alternate models for that. Eventually, it's not
Matthew mteam: just reading your question from the chat. It's not
Matthew mteam: the same as what Gwyneth is doing. There's no new precompile, and we don't change the State transition at all. We're just using
Matthew mteam: some some tricks with the like proxying and aliases.
Matthew mteam: But it's not.
Matthew mteam: It's not dissimilar, either. It has some of the some of the same characteristics, for sure.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Thanks.
Joshua Rudolf: Anyone else any questions for M. Team.
Joshua Rudolf: Thanks for sharing the presentation. Yeah, my quick. 2 cents for what it's worth. Not a
Joshua Rudolf: particularly, I guess. Insightful comment. But yeah, to me, base roll ups are a no brainer in terms of exploration. Iteration. I think they've already delivered value on that front and pushed our thinking forward in many ways yourself, tyco team.
Joshua Rudolf: I'm on Nethermind team, many others working on this. I think it's already had a yeah net. Positive outputs like you said. You know whether we call it a moonshot or something else. There's many things to still figure out around this. And where does this fit in? It's a, you know, maybe a bit
Joshua Rudolf: of a more medium to long term effort. But yeah, I despite some of my questions or concerns. I'm I support. And it's it's been great to see. Yeah, you and others pushing this forward.
Matthew mteam: Thank you. Yeah. I mean, I really appreciate that. I think there is a there's. There's like a
Matthew mteam: maybe a notable thing about base reps is that there's other than Tycho. There's not a lot of large layer twos, or like established layer twos that are directly pursuing this model in the short term. And so I think
Matthew mteam: and we had our, I think, sequencing call 17, where a bunch of big teams committed to eventually exploring this. But I think the the general consensus has been. Let's kind of wait and see how the layer one dependencies evolve and kind of. If we can do some further research here. So I think is definitely the pragmatic approach.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah. Makes sense
Joshua Rudolf: cool. Well, we only have a couple of minutes left. Any other
Joshua Rudolf: quick questions, feedback anything else for the group?
Joshua Rudolf: If not. We can end things there.
Joshua Rudolf: Cool. Thanks, everybody for joining, and we'll see you next time.
Ian | Polymer Labs: Thanks. Josh.
Joshua Rudolf: You. Bye, guys, thank you.